feat(profiling): add automatic pprof collection (#5711)
gruntwork-io/terragrunt: docs/src/content/docs/06-troubleshooting/03-performance.mdx

Use profiling tools like [pprof](https://github.com/google/pprof) to get a more detailed view of the performance of Terragrunt.

##### Runtime CPU Profiling with `TG_PROFILE_CPU`

You can profile Terragrunt during normal operation by setting `TG_PROFILE_CPU` when the `profiling` experiment is enabled:

```shell

> TG_EXPERIMENT=profiling TG_PROFILE_CPU=terragrunt_cpu.prof terragrunt run -- plan

Reviewer: Same feedback here. The heading should carry the Aside and leave these free.

```shell
TG_EXPERIMENT=profiling TG_PROFILE_CPU=terragrunt_cpu.prof TOFU_CPU_PROFILE=tofu_cpu.prof terragrunt run -- plan
```

##### Directory Collection with `TG_PROFILE_DIR`

For `run --all`, point Terragrunt at a directory instead of individual files:

```shell
TG_EXPERIMENT=profiling TG_PROFILE_DIR=/tmp/profiles terragrunt run --all -- plan
```

Terragrunt does the following automatically:

1. Creates the directory if it does not exist.
2. Writes `terragrunt_cpu.prof`, `terragrunt_mem.prof`, and `terragrunt_goroutine.prof` for the main Terragrunt process.
3. For each unit, sets `TOFU_CPU_PROFILE` so the OpenTofu CPU profile (OpenTofu 1.11 or later) is written into a unit-specific subdirectory.

Example result with several units:

```
/tmp/profiles/
|-- terragrunt_cpu.prof
|-- terragrunt_mem.prof
|-- terragrunt_goroutine.prof
|-- modules/vpc/
|   |-- tofu_cpu_init.prof
|   `-- tofu_cpu_plan.prof
|-- live/prod/database/
|   `-- tofu_cpu_plan.prof
`-- live/prod/app/
    `-- tofu_cpu_plan.prof
```

> The subdirectory layout matches the layout of your units relative to the working directory. This guarantees that no two OpenTofu processes write to the same file in parallel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The subdirectory layout matches the layout of your units relative to the working directory.
```

Behavior details:

- If you do not set direct profile paths, Terragrunt creates the conventional filenames directly inside the given directory.
- If you also set `TG_PROFILE_CPU`, `TG_PROFILE_MEM`, or `TG_PROFILE_GOROUTINE`, that exact path is used for the corresponding Terragrunt profile.
- The relative path is computed from the root working directory (set with `--working-dir`, defaulting to the current directory).
- Units outside the working directory (for example, external dependencies pulled in with `--queue-include-external`) are written under an `external/` subdirectory with a name derived from the unit path, so they never collide.
- Each OpenTofu invocation in a unit writes its own file named after the command, so auto-init produces `tofu_cpu_init.prof` next to the main command profile.
- If the run is interrupted (for example, with Ctrl+C), the CPU profile may be incomplete and unreadable by `go tool pprof`.

##### Memory Profiling with `TG_PROFILE_MEM`

You can capture a heap memory profile of the Terragrunt process by setting:

```shell
TG_EXPERIMENT=profiling TG_PROFILE_MEM=terragrunt_mem.prof terragrunt run -- plan
```

> This is a snapshot taken at the end of the run after forcing a GC. Unlike CPU profiling, memory profiles are not collected from OpenTofu because there is no `TOFU_MEM_PROFILE` equivalent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a snapshot taken at the end of the run after forcing garbage collection. Unlike CPU profiling, memory profiles are not collected from OpenTofu because there is no `TOFU_MEM_PROFILE` equivalent.
```

Use profiling tools like [pprof](https://github.com/google/pprof) to get a more detailed view of the performance of Terragrunt.

> <Aside type="tip" title="Experimental">

Reviewer: This should go inside the headings, not before it so that anchor links don't miss the aside.

Use profiling tools like [pprof](https://github.com/google/pprof) to get a more detailed view of the performance of Terragrunt.

<Since version="v1.1.1">

<Aside type="tip" title="Experimental">
Profiling is part of the [`profiling` experiment](/reference/experiments/active#profiling). Enable it with `--experiment=profiling` or `TG_EXPERIMENT=profiling`.
</Aside>

</Since>

> ##### Runtime CPU Profiling with `TG_PROFILE_CPU`

Reviewer: This is gonna look busted actually. It's just gonna be an empty header.
